#summary The current release notes
#labels Featured,NetClient

= Introduction =

The release notes show bugfixes and feature additions over the course of the project. 
The wiki page shows the release notes for the current binary download, the subversion project contains a text version with the most recent changes.

= Details =

== 1.1.0.0 ==
  * added GZip support for .NET 1.1, 2.0 and .NET Compact Framework 2.0.
  * added the ability to use authsubtokens to the ExecRequest utility (including exchange of a onetime token to a session token). Just run ExecRequest for the         command line parameters, or read the help file page about it.
  * Support for Google Calendar WebContent Gadgets is included. A WebContent element has a SortedList property to set and retrieve those preferences. See caltest.cs for an example.
  * Picasa support:
    * Added all media extensions (media:rss, exif and photo>
    * Added a PhotoEntry and PhotoFeed class that contain all of those extensions
    * Added unittests to query an album and insert a new photo
  *  Added the QuickAdd feature for the Google Calendar. An EventEntry has a QuickAdd boolean property. Setting it to true causes an insert to be treated like a quickAdd operation. 
  * Added the webcontentlink class to the Google Calendar Support to enable easier creation of Gadgets in calendars.
  * Batch support for Google Calendar
  * ASP .NET support for medium trust
  * Complete refactoring of Apps extension to use the new extension system (IExtensionElementFactory, AbstractEntry and AbstractFeed).
  * To enable ASP.NET hosting in medium trust, we removed the usage of the NetworkCredentials class. From now on, credentials are either passed as username/password, or using the GDataCredentials. (issue 57)
  * Changed "adminUserName" to "adminEmailAddress" in AppsService so that it's more clear what information is actually required for this parameter.
  * fixed a Google Base issue (The server doesn't accept scientific notations for floats)
  * fixed typo in the blogger sample (www..blogger), which made the sample hard to use
  * make the GAuthToken property of the GAuthRequestFactory public. It was mistakenly marked internal, so that the token could not be retrieved by a client         application for caching.  
  * fixed a parsing issue that resulted in Batch Upload hanging if an unknown element was encountered
  * added a helper method on AtomBase (entry and feed) to find exensionelements by specifying a localname and an optional namespace (issue 81)
  * the extension mechanism was reworked by creating an ExtensionElementFactory interface that takes care of parsing elements. ElementFactories are registered     on the AtomBase (entry and feed) level.
  * Fixed Issue 60, mulitple Reminders per Event. Note, that this introduces slight changes when dealing with this. A new property, EventEntry.Reminders, was   created. The old property, EventEntry.Reminder, still exists, and only works on the first Reminder in the list. Setting the old property will delete all       addtional reminders.The Reminders property is of type ArrayList (this is an  artifact of being .NET 1.1 compatible, once we move to .NET 2.0 or later, if        that ever happens, this could/should be typed).
  * Modified data model for Spreadsheets worksheets to make it easier to change and construct associated meta-data
  * Added the ctz parameter to the EventQuery class. This parameter allows to specify the timezone that is used to calculate start/end times for the returned         events
  * Added an AlternateUri Property on the AtomEntry class. This property returns the AtomUri of a rel=alternate type=html LINK entry. As this is        similiar to the ill named LINK helper on the spreadsheet entry, that helper was removed, as they do serve the same purpose, and the link helper was read only.
  * Added an FeedUri Property on the AtomEntry class. This property returns the AtomUri of a rel=#feed type=atom+xml LINK entry.
  * Added an MediaUri Property on the AtomEntry class. This property returns the AtomUri of a rel=#edit-media type=atom+xml LINK entry.
  * Added new methods on the AtomCategory collection. Find searches for a category of a given term, or a term/scheme combination. Also changed the        implementation of the Contains method to compare not just object fidelity, but also term/value pairs
  * Added a ConvertToXSDSTring() helper in the Utilites class. As booleans are represented as "True"/"False" in .NET, and xsd requires "true"/"false" this helper takes care of that conversion.
  * Added the ability to create custom AtomBase subclassed objects to custom feeds/entries. Look at CreateAtomSubElement() in AtomBase. This is used to create custom clases like WebContentLink in the derived services



 == 1.0.9.9 ==

  * added GBase support for m:adjusted_name and gm:adjusted_value inside attributes (returned only when adjustments are enabled)

  * Google Apps changes:
    * Added new AppsService.createUser methods with hashed password support
    * Updated AppsException with new Google Apps error codes
    * Added the following properties to Login.cs:
      * string hashFunctionName - to hash user account password,
      * bool agreedToTerms - to see if the user has accepted the Google Apps Terms Of Service,
      * bool admin - to see if the user is a domain admin,
      * bool changePasswordAtNextLogin - to force the user to change password at next login
    * Updated unittests to test new properties



== 1.0.9.8 ==
  * fixed a parsing bug in SpreadsheetService
  * fixed a bug in GDataRequestException that would prevent AppsException from accessing the server's response.
  * modified AppsException to comply with new GDataRequestException
  * fixed a bug in CalculateBaseUri, that caused a crash if the passed in parameters are all NULL. This caused composite feeds to not load if there was a comment feed embedded
  * fixed a bug in the CalendarEventEntry, it was not parsing extendedProperties. They are now parsed and added correctly to the ExtensionElements
  * added ACL support. This resulted in changes in the CalendarService.Query method - as a CalendarService can now return an EventFeed or an AccessControlFeed. Added Query overloads to accept EventQuery or AclQuery and return the appropriate Feeds
  * added a cmd line tool to query/insert/update to a service based on streams
  * modified the Spreadsheet service to use the new scheme of service subclassing. This should fix a bundle of issues with regard to entry castings.
  * changed persistence of gd:extendedProperty to save the value attribute, even if there is no data to persist
  * Added an ASP.NET release (lib/ASP.NET) where the DLLs are build with the AllowPartiallyTrustedCallers attribute enabled. Please use with caution and refer to the readme.txt in that subdirectory for more information.

== 1.0.9.6 ==
  * added Google Apps for Your Domain support, a new helper DLL Google.GData.Apps.dll, and a sample, as well
  as unittests. Version number is increased to distinguish from the previous Subversion dlls.

== 1.0.9.5 ==
  * fix for incorrect encoding of usernames/passwords during authentication (you could run
  into problems if you had an email like "foo&joe@test.com"
  * exposure of the accountType as a property on the factory. If you happen to have an identical
  user name for a Google account and a hosted account, you need to set this property depending on 
  which account you want to access. Default is GOOGLE_OR_HOSTED, other values are GOOGLE or HOSTED
  as strings.
  * fixed an issue with the edit/self uris on the entry. They were not correctly setable.
  * fixed an issue that one you used an authenticated service, but did not supply credentials, we would send
  an empty authentication header. 
  * added Captcha Handling and more detailed exceptions when the authentication 
  request fails. See authexceptions.cs for the list of potential exceptions thrown
  * added some preliminary unittests for the new exceptions
  * added a new constructor for the TokenCollection, so that captcha parsing is handled correctly
  * made the debug output depending on the TRACE define, and removed that define for the release build


== 1.0.9.4 ==
  * Google Base: fix for incorrect Price attribute behaviour
  * Google Base: fix for incorrectly persisting duplicate attributes
  * Fix for Content.Type having no default value (issue 41)
  * Fix for Content.Type="text/html" parsing incorrectly. The strict check for type="text" is now relaxed to be type.startsWidth("text"), so all text subtypes will be treated the same
  * Fix for Content.Type = "html" and "text/html" persistence. What the code does now is: first HTMLDecode the value held, than run the standard XMLWriter.WriteString over it (which does HTML encoding). This seems to work fine. 
  * Added the gm:stats tags to the Windows Mobile build, accidently forgot to change that project file
  * the calendarfeed discarded entries unknown to it in the calendar namespace. This is fixed now. Unknown entries to the parser are now correctly added to the extension elements.
  * added the return-empty parameter to the cellquery class
  * added URL encoding to the authentication parameters (username/passwords etc that had unallowed FORM post chars caused failed login attempts)

== 1.0.9.3 ==
- Google Base changes:
  New features:
    * GBaseQuery supports the following optional parameters; orderby, sortorder, refine and content
    * Support for gm:stats tags
    * GBaseUriFactory can now generate the feed uri of other customers
    
  Fixes:
    * Fixed the GBaseAttributeType hierarchy for date/dateTime/dateTimeRange
    * Fixed the type of the hardcoded ExpirationDate property in GBaseAttributes
- Added a Makefile for Mono builds. This one replaces the Ant file. 	

- Removed the MethodOverride default for the CalendarService. If you need that (due to firewalls not allowing PUT/DELETE requests, you can reenable this with setting the MethodOverride flag on the factory:
{{{
   ((GDataGAuthRequestFactory)calsvc.RequestFactory).MethodOverride = false;  
}}}
- Changed the X-Method-Override behaviour for DELETE, to fix an issue with .NET mobile (the mobile client would crash when the contentLength was set to 0 and no stream was requested).

- Added a KeepAlive property to the factory object. This is set to true by default. .NET 2.0 clients, are due to behaviour changes in that runtime encouraged to set this to false.

== 1.0.9 ==
- Fixed an issue where the login services changed the response contenttype. The check for text/plain is now more relaxed.
- Added the missing location calls for Geolocation for GoogleBase
- Fixed a build issue for Windows Mobile in release. The code now compiles for PocketPC and WindowsMobile symbols defined.
- Changed the versioning system to have consistent versioning across the builds
- Added batch files to produce the final binaries and the documentation
- Fixed Web application authentication support. This should work fine now in secure and unsecure mode.


== 1.0.8 == 
- Fixed issue 13 from the public issue list. If a content element contained xhtml, and not just text, 
  the content was not read correctly. 
- Fixed issue 17 from the public issue list. XHTML content was not persisted correctly.
- Added support for hosted domain feeds. This is done automatically, no codechanges needed for the application developer.
  The authentication code was changed to ask for Hosted domains first, then google accounts. 
- Added support for the app:control/app:draft element, but only in the way to expose a boolean on the AtomEntry. 
  The new member on AtomEntry is called IsDraft.
- Changed the way atom:content is parsed. Text & HTML types use xmlreader.ReadString() to get the inner content. XHTML and
  all other types use readInnerXml() to get the content.
- changed Exception handling. The code now throws more detailed exceptions based on what was happening:
  -> GDataRequestException: generic exception 
  -> GDataForbiddenException: exception thrown when the server return a Forbidden on authentication
  -> GDataRedirectException: exception thrown when the server returned a redirect
- changed redirect handling on Post. The library will follow redirects on Post automatically by default, to accomodate Blogger (which
  currently may return 302s on posts). This can be turned off by setting the .StrictRedirect property to true on the 
  GDataAuthRequestFactory. If it is turned off, the code will throw if a redirect is happening on an HTTP verb other than GET.
- changed redirect handling for DELETE/PUT the same as for POST
- removed cookie handling. The code will handle cookies now without using the CookieContainer (one hurdle on the way to the CompactFramework Port).
- Fixed persistence of "initialized" date values for udpated/published on the atom.entry. This resolves an issue with the Blogger. 
- Added EventEntry.Notifications. This property (boolean) indicates if an update on an entry should send notifications to the attendees of the 
  Event. 
- Fixed the gbase project (the NumberFormat.cs file was missing in the project file). 
- Added a proxy property for the GDataRequestFactory. 
- Setting content-length correctly to fix WindowsMobile issues. This fix is a user submitted, and created by Steeve Morin
- Fixes to the authsub code, provided by Ryan Boyd
- The DLLs were renamed, to follow the Windows .NET standard. 
	gdata.dll 	-> 	Google.GData.Client.dll
	gbase.dll 	-> 	Google.GData.GoogleBase.dll
	gcalendar.dll 	-> 	Google.GData.Calendar.dll
	gcodesearch.dll	-> 	Google.GData.CodeSearch.dll
	gextensions.dll	->	Google.GData.Extensions.dll
	and the new one -> 	Google.GData.Spreadsheets.dll






== 1.0.7 ==
- Added support for published-min/published-max as standard query parameters
- Added support for codesearch. A new DLL gcodesearch.dll and a new sample for this is available.
- Added support for the WebContent calendar extension
- Added signing to the gbase.dll

== 1.0.6 == 
- Added support for sortoder, futurevents, singleevents on the calendarquery
- Added a ResponseString property on the GDataRequestException to make debugging server side errors easier
- Fixed an issue with the GoogleBaseService, if you did set the RequestFactory property twice, you would 
  create too many header entries, and hence end up with request denied responses
- Added the shipping attribute for GoogleBase
- Changed the payment attribute to payment_accepted for GoogleBase

== 1.0.5 ==
- Added batch support for GoogleFeeds, the first property to support this is the GoogleBase product
- Added a unittest for GoogleBase. This code shows update/insert/delete against base for single entries and batch entries
  refer to clients/cs/src/unittests/gbase.cs for sample code. 
- Added IComparable to atomuri.cs (based on a feature request on our issue list)
- GDataAuthRequestFactory is now a subclass of GDataRequestFactory
- Moved GCookies from GDataAuthRequestFactory to GDataRequestFactory and renamed it to Cookies
- removed the debug binaries from the lib directory
- added a GoogleBase sample application in VB ! 
- added the build executables to the lib directory
- added GoogleBase classes (similiar to the java classes) to access Google base specific feeds

Known issues:
- recurrenceException is not fully tested
- authsubutil and gauthsubrequest are not fully tested


== 1.0.4 == 
- Fixed a .NET 2.0 issue in calendarservice.cs, that dropped connections during repeated calls. 
- Made the execution path more robust. 
- Added a property, numberOfRetries on the GAuthRequestFactory to indicate how often an Execution should be retried if the server returns an error. 
- Fixed a bug in the daterange query creation (the +sign for the timezone was not escaped properly)
- Fixed an issue with updating, where if you used the same AtomEntry/EventEntry several times to update, it could happen that extension 
  elements were doubled, and the update failed.
- Fixed a bug in the parsing of all elements. This could cause an endless loop when the content was empty.
- Fixed several content creation issues (issues 5-9 on the issue list)
- added support for the gd:extendedProperty
- Added a calendar example application
- added a sample application to access Blogger feeds, and post to blogger feeds. 

Known issues:
- recurrenceException is not fully tested
- authsubutil and gauthsubrequest are not fully tested
Solved issues:
 - .NET 2.0 seems to loose resources in some circumstances. Hard to reproduce.



== 1.0.3 ==
- Fixed the namespace creation for extensions, the wireformat should no longer create the namespace declaration when it's not required
- Fixed the reminder persistence code
- added a TimeZone property on the EventFeed to retrieve the timezone value 
- added a FindEvent method on the EventFeed. This one takes an OriginalEvent object, and returns the 
  Event that this is based on. This will go to the server if required. 
- Fixed recurrance issues in the extensions 
- Moved EventFeed and EventEntry from the Google.GData.Extensions namespace to the Google.GData.Calendar namespace
- Fixed a bug in the parsing of Atom:Content elements. This could cause an endless loop when the content was empty.

== 1.0.2 ==
- Fixed a problem persisting feedlink elements
- added an AllDay flag to the When class to allow parsing and persting of all day events
- cleaned up the persistence code in the extension classes
- fixed a problem that resulted in persisting multiple extensionn objects instead of one
- added a timestamp method to the Tracing class to help measuring performance in simple cases

== 1.0.1 ==
- Correctly uses 'rel.previous' instead of 'rel.prev' as required by Atom
  Publishing Protocol.
- Corrected the time-shift portion of the DateTime output for time zones with a
  negative shift from UTC.
- Corrected the time-shift to permit fractional hour shifts from UTC.
- Correctly output "startTime" and "endTime" as attributes of the "when"
  extension rather than child elements.
- Refactored class hierarchy, now based on IExtensionElement. 

== 1.0.0 ==
- Initial Release

















